Women’s empowerment has become a significant topic of discussion in development and economics. And as human beings, it is our responsibility to remain aware of significant topics in the world. Does not matter whether you are male or female or trans, we should always help each other and must fight for each other rights, therefore you must have to read this article because this is going to give you the full current information on the topic — Women Empowerment.

I know many of you don’t know the actual meaning of women empowerment, and I am sure many of you have wrong thoughts about this due to a lack of current information, so I am starting with the introduction of the topic to get more clear about this so that we can also help women for their rights…………… Let’s start with ‘What is women’s empowerment?’

What is women’s empowerment?
Women’s empowerment can be defined as promoting women’s sense of self-worth, their ability to determine their own choices, and their right to influence social change for themselves and others. Women’s empowerment (or female empowerment) is the process of empowering women.

The full participation and partnership of both women and men are required in productive and reproductive life, including shared responsibilities for the care and nurturing of children and maintenance of the household. In all parts of the world, women are facing threats to their lives, health, and well-being as a result of being overburdened with work and of their lack of power and influence. In most regions of the world, women receive less formal education than men, and at the same time, women’s own knowledge, abilities, and coping mechanisms often go unrecognized. The power relations that impede women’s attainment of healthy and fulfilling lives operate at many levels of society, from the most personal to the highly public. Achieving change requires policy and program actions that will improve women’s access to secure livelihoods and economic resources, alleviate their extreme responsibilities with regard to housework, remove legal impediments to their participation in public life, and raise social awareness through effective programs of education and mass communication. In addition, improving the status of women also enhances their decision-making capacity at all levels in all spheres of life, especially in the area of sexuality and reproduction. This, in turn, is essential for the long-term success of population programs. Experience shows that population and development programs are most effective when steps have simultaneously been taken to improve the status of women.

Women empowerment helps in boosting the status of women through literacy, education, training, and awareness creation. Furthermore, women’s empowerment refers to women’s ability to make strategic life choices that had been previously denied them.

Empowerment of women enhances the quality and the number of human resources available for development. Empowerment is one of the main procedural concerns when addressing human rights and development.

There are several principles defining women’s empowerment such as, for one to be empowered, they must come from a position of disempowerment. They must acquire empowerment themselves rather than have it given to them by an external party. Other studies have found that empowerment definitions entail people having the capability to make important decisions in their lives while also being able to act on them. Empowerment and disempowerment are relative to the other at a previous time; as such, empowerment is a process rather than a product.

Women’s Empowerment Principles
Collaboration between the UN Global Compact and UN Women, the Women’s Empowerment Principles are used to empower women in the marketplace, workplace and community.7 principles are as follows :

1. Establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality.
a. Affirm high-level support and direct top-level policies for
gender equality and human rights.
b. Establish company-wide goals and targets for gender
equality and include progress as a factor in managers’
performance reviews.
c. Engage internal and external stakeholders in the
development of company policies, programs and
implementation plans that advance equality.
d. Ensure that all policies are gender-sensitive — identifying
factors that impact women and men differently — and that
corporate culture advances equality and inclusion.

2. Treat all women and men fairly at work — respect and support human rights and nondiscrimination.
a. Pay equal remuneration, including benefits, for work of equal

value and strive to pay a living wage to all women and men.

b. Ensure that workplace policies and practices are free from

gender-based discrimination.

c. Implement gender-sensitive recruitment and retention

practices and proactively recruit and appoint women to

managerial and executive positions and the corporate

board of directors.

d. Assure sufficient participation of women — 30% or greater –

in decision-making and governance at all levels and across

all business areas.

e. Offer flexible work options, leave and re-entry opportunities

to positions of equal pay and status.

f. Support access to child and dependent care by providing

services, resources, and information to both women and men.